
**Adidas Case**

Adding two additional IT vendors to organization's portfolio of strategic sourcing partners p1
existing: Alpha, Beta, Gamma
advan: 
  attention, 
  vendor lower price and up in quality
  less defects 2
  lower cost
  reduce op and stra risk
Risk:
  exib 4
  
Background:
  *sports industry grow at a slow pace--decline in sports participation--promote healthy lifestyle/fashion
  strength: athletic apparel, athletic footwear, equipment, asian market, start to targting US 3
  outsourcing production focus on marketing
  direct interaction with end consumers. IT--> more flexible and innvative, competitive
  broad portfolio, core brands
  
  Global IT
    centralized
    e-commerce, social media
    enterprice-> consumer tech 4
    employee, consumer, ecosystem
    five tracks: partner, innovation, delivery, service, employ engagement 4
  Org Struct
    centr, 8 divisions Exhib 9
    **successful, but redundent
    
   
 Multi-Vendor
    *what outsource/internally hold internally Exhibit 10
    **no leverage, vendor not good
 Vendor selection
    two to create even more competition
    but want to manage as few
    **size of partners, have impact
    Beta, near, tier 2--senor worker, chanllenge myself,innovative
    Gamma pricing
    they also need cooperation
  Vendor onboarding
    slow onboarding: relcutance to change, transition cost, **need mass in business volume
  Interner acceptance
    reluc from both from adi and vendors
    create trust by collecting hard fact
  Mindset
    mid mangement does not comprehend, top management understad
    resource on site
    accountability to single vendor
  Manag relationship
    frustrated at first
    adi try to balance
    growth with the company
    subdize for vendor's learning
    formal structure to mange the relationship Exhib 12
 Benefit
    lower cost, competition among vendors, less dependency, mor responsive
    creative and competent srevie
    understanding the strengthes and weakness
 
 RfP request for proposal
 
 Future
    Maitaining competition and collaboration
      **view each other as collaborators13--periodically brought other vendors
      reduced RfPs
 Moving forward
    restructuring to pool resources across verticals
    setting captive center--do it yourself, but lose flexibility not competency
    
    
  
  
multi outsourcing more successful

1. horizontally-structured IT infrastructure&Operations division which focus on technical specification p5


2. 10-point future action plan describing what skills and knowledge should acquire from the market p5
3. cultivate competition by selecting vendors that have strength in either senior workforce or pricing
4. make sure adidas be the top ten list of offshore partners's client p6
5. promoting cooperation among vendors
6. intentionally encourage vendors create critical mass in business volume to help onborading
7. get internal and external reluctance to change in vendors
8. shift accountability to a single vendor



1.	10-point future action plan describing skills and knowledge to acquire outside
2.	Keep the proper number of offshore vendors and make sure Adidas is in the top ten clients
3.	Cultivate competition by selecting vendors strong in either senior workforce or pricing
4.	Promote cooperation among vendors
5.	Intentionally help low tier vendors create critical mass in business volume
6.	Get internal and external support for changing
7.	Shift accountability to a single vendor
8.	Maintain relationship with vendors by balancing between different vendors, creating business growth opportunities and establishing formal structures and processes


Volkswagen should treat some projects specially?
1. unfair 
2. too theoretical
3. IT was an obstacle

1. IT infrastructure projects were treated separately their long run benefits are difficult to quantify.
2. Projects not funded in the new process are comparatively less priotized for enterprise goals, so Volkswagen had better focus their insufficient fund on the more important projects.
3. Approving special treatments would encourage BU to bargin with Matulovic rather than to prioritize their objectives.


Cisco Case

1. CIO avoid mega-projects
2. characters: a. customization, mirror operation, schedule workable and prioritized

3. get the best people, strong partners experienced  in the industry
4. KPMG leverage the experiences of others, visiting reference clients
narrowed the ERP scope to five packages
5. choose more established ERP software from Oracle
6. clear objectives regarding to the implementation schedule and financial justification (out of three alternatives)
7. get the support from management board and the whole company
8. setting up the project management team where all related parties are involved
9. Implementing by CRP to check and revise the process
10. leave enough buffer for testing to stabalize the system


Below aspects show they were smart:
1. Clear objective: customization, mirror operation, prioritized process and narrowed scope
2. A strong project team involving all relevant parties with an experienced partner.
3. Leverage the experiences before starting the project
4. Choose established ERP vendor who wants success
6. Well justification to get the high level support
7. Implementing by CRP to monitor the process timely
8. Leave enough buffer for stabilizing the system

agile developing, no specific budget or scope


Kodak case
1. cater consumer nees rather than do it in own way p3
2. *****user acceptance p4
3. *****put effort in developing electronic image-film based digital imaging
Kay Whitmore
4. ?????silver-halide technology provided the highest quality images at the lowest price for the foreseeable future p4
Photo CD not consumer need and miss the opportunity of Bill Gates

Fisher
confident
investment in China
****separate from silver-hadide photographic division p5
rebuild the company,focusing on consumer satisfactory
competition is fierce
?????resist Fisher's initiatives-especially middle management
1997*****most cost are related to digital cameras and reverse hardware-based digital strategy
*****film was caught off guard by Fuji p6

Daniel A Carp
horizontal company and network and consumables busi model
focus on image capture, services and image output p7
????restructring digital and applied imaging into one division p7
?????image manipulation p7

I think before 1997 what I would do would generally similar. But after 1997 I would do things differently.
1. Carefully considering digital business rather than judging "imaging will not cannibalize file" early, as imaging business had been growing continuously.
2. Emphasize on digital strategy rather than regarding it as "create a profitable bridge between the old and tnew worlds of photography" for Fuji had already taken over the market and the film market as a whole became decreasing.
3. Would not have initiate the restructuring as the two business are inherently competing.
4. Would focus on the core business rather than put effort in developing image manipulation software.

What I would do before 1997 would be similar, but different after 1997.
1. Seriously consider digital oriented strategy rather than positioning at bridging between film and digital business for (a) imaging business was replacing film business (b) Fuji had taken over the film market (c) film market was decreasing
2. Would not restructure as the two businesses were competing.
3. Focus on the core business rather than spare effort on image manipulation software.





