Critique on Instruments used in Education and Earnings Research
Zhou Jiali, HKUST
The paper I discuss is David Card's 1999 paper The Causal Effect of Education on Earnings. In this review paper, this paper reviews previous research that analyzes causal link between education and earnings, in it he summarized and examined most of the instruments used in those studies. For this assignment I will follow his analyzing framework and give my critique to some of the IV used in that stream of research.
In this work, he mainly analyzed 4 types of instrument variables adopted in previous research.
1. Geographic proximity of schools. This approach was originally proposed by David Card, in his 1994 work he argued presence of a local college lowers the costs of attending college and raises the perceived benefits of education among children in poor families. On whether living near the college has a direct effect on earning, he proposed since the geographic proximity mainly benefits poor families, so if the location really affect earning through education indirectly, then the size of effect should be larger for poor families. The problem of this instrument is that the residence proximity to college could be related to future earnings. For example, the economic well-being of a city not only drives its average wage higher, but also makes it a preferable place to host a college because of sufficient budget. It's also possible that a college has positive externality which attract good companies locate around it.
2. Family background information such as parents' education. This approach wasproposed by Card 1995 and Conneely adn Uusitalo 1997. Their logic is based on this finding: children's schooling outcomes are greatly influenced by the characteristics of their parents' education. When parents have higher education, they are more aware of the importance of good education thus would provide their offsprings better education opportunities. However, this instrument also may independently correlate with children's future earnings. For example, parents with higher education are more likely to possess higher social status and could possibly provide their children better job opportunities.
3. Using twins. This approach addresses family background differences between different children by using twins for comparison. The logic is that twins share similar ability, family background and social resources. Nevertheless, if the twins do have similar abilities then there should be no differences in their education. On the other hand, if twins have different abilities, then the ability differences could affect both education and future earnings, thus making the instrument not so valid.
Taking all these possible instruments into consideration, a more convincing approach is using institutional features of school systems. Anrist and Krueger 1991 observed compulsory schooling laws require that children born in the same calendar year typically start school at the same time. So children born earlier in the year reach the minimum school-leaving age earlier than those who born later in the same year. The instrument used here is quarter and state of birth. Although there are people arguing that the particular time of birth decides people's constellation or incidence of mental illness, I think the instrument is more valid than other three.

References
Angrist, Joshua D., and Alan B. Keueger. "Does compulsory school attendance affect schooling and earnings?." The Quarterly Journal of Economics 106.4 (1991): 979-1014.APA	
Card, David. Earnings, schooling, and ability revisited. No. w4832. National Bureau of Economic Research, 1994.
Card, David. Using geographic variation in college proximity to estimate the return to schooling. No. w4483. National Bureau of Economic Research, 1993.
Conneely, Karen, and Roope Uusitalo. Estimating heterogeneous treatment effects in the Becker schooling model. Department of Economics. University of Helsinki, 1998.
Card, David. "The causal effect of education on earnings." Handbook of labor economics 3 (1999): 1801-1863.
