
1. vertical differentiatio relax price competition

2. cost structure
Does it really matter whether we suppose fixed constant cost or zero cost? I think Sutton they assume constant cost and the cost is zero.

quadratic cost function by Moothy, 
zero cost and upper bound of quality in Shaked and Sutton
----whether quality has an upper limit


cost may influence the number of firms can survive in the market, in oligopoly competition

here we should only consider how zero marginal cost would influence?
zero marginal means market will be covered since marginal revenue is alwasys bigger than marginal cost.
but in those literature, they don't have other cost while here we have privacy cost

industries are highly concentrated because the level of fixed costs involved is high
constant fixed cost---market structure
in which the level of fixed costs is treated as a constant. In this setting, the size of fixed costs, relative to the size of the economy, determines  the number of firms, and therefore the degree of concentration. As the size of  the economy increases, the level of concentration falls. Economies of scale thus become "less important" as a barrier to entry in "large economies"

Let F(u) denote the fixed cost incurred in developing a product with attributes (u, h), and let c(u) denote the unit variable cost incurred in its production. Our first assumption relates to the form of c(u), and it embodies the basic idea which we carry over from the "pure vertical differentiation" literature (Shaked and Sutton [198

we are more concerned with fixed cost/variable cost problem:

zero fixed/constant variable cost--natural oligopoly, and moorthy 1985 http://services.bepress.com/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1025&context=wilson seems to me competition increases then the profit decreases
fixed cost+constant variable cost
fixed cost+zero marginal cost

non linear variable cost



3. simultaneous or sequential strategy

Sequential versus simultaneous choice with endogenous quality 

Quality choices will be made sequentially in an industry where new products are pioneered by a single firm, such as the pharmaceutical industry. The assumption that quality choices are made simultaneously is most appropriate if the new generation of products is developed by multiple firms in the industry, such as the automobile industry. 

 institutional factors and government regulations that mandate informational disclosure may also determine whether the competition is one of imperfect information (i.e. a simultaneous move game) or one of perfect information (i.e. a sequential move game). For example, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) licensing policy may provide the opportunity for credible, verifiable information disclosure (Grabowski and Vernon, 1983). 


4. different sensitivity to privacy/ privacy is not price due to sensitivity (find lit in competing with privacy)

lead to firms relax the competition on privacy? seems to me the profit would be higher since low type customers have less sensitivity giving firms more intention to acquire value from low type customers.

many competition should lead firms to set low privacy request.

http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdf/3569810.pdf?refreqid=excelsior%3Ad1823b17875a32bf8b4a2e950c3e88ca

differentiated rather than pernetration price strategy
first move advantage-rather than me too advantage---less likely to corrupt
less price has high sales volume vs less privacy has low volume
high quality low sales (because prices are often high) here high quality with high sales (market share)
higher profit margin are the same
https://www.marketing91.com/price-competition-vs-non-price-competition/



